security-champion/security-champion.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Security Champion
---

## WIP: Info about security champion

Ideally, each Equinor delivery team would have one or more team-member who takes on the role of Security Champion.

A Security Champion is a team-member who amplifies the security message at the team level.  
In practice, this means to act as the "security conscience" of the team.
You do not need to be a security expert to become a Security Champion, an interest for security is more than enough.

Tasks *could* involve:

- Staying up-to-date with best practices and security related news
- Attend security related conferences/training/workshops
- Raising awareness of security issues within the development team
- Being part of the Security Champion community
- Facilitate threat modelling
- Conduct and/or verify automated scans
- Be the point of contact for security related stuff
- Drive internal bug-bounty

As a Security Champion, you would be a target audience for a lot of the work done by the AppSec-team.  
The AppSec-team will be providing workshops, training, resources and support where needed.

And of course it would be nice if the Security Champions would join Equinor's [**Security Champion Slack Channel**](https://equinor.slack.com/archives/C036HGPBJ04)

Commit message:

Adds a line describing responsibility for security in a team

security-champion/security-champion.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Security Champion
---

## WIP: Info about security champion

Ideally, each Equinor delivery team would have one or more team-member who takes on the role of Security Champion.

A Security Champion is a team-member who amplifies the security message at the team level.  
In practice, this means to act as the "security conscience" of the team.
You do not need to be a security expert to become a Security Champion, an interest for security is more than enough.

> Please note that security is a team responsibility, and the Security Champion is not more accountable for security than any other team member

Tasks *could* involve:

- Staying up-to-date with best practices and security related news
- Attend security related conferences/training/workshops
- Raising awareness of security issues within the development team
- Being part of the Security Champion community
- Facilitate threat modelling
- Conduct and/or verify automated scans
- Be the point of contact for security related stuff
- Drive internal bug-bounty

As a Security Champion, you would be a target audience for a lot of the work done by the AppSec-team.  
The AppSec-team will be providing workshops, training, resources and support where needed.

And of course it would be nice if the Security Champions would join Equinor's [**Security Champion Slack Channel**](https://equinor.slack.com/archives/C036HGPBJ04)
