docs/security-champion/1-new_security_champion.md, before:

# I've joined, now what?

## Welcome young padawan

This is where the fun begins.

- Join the [#appsec](https://equinor.slack.com/archives/CMM6FSW5V) channel on Slack
- You will get an invitation to the [#security-champion](https://equinor.slack.com/archives/C036HGPBJ04) channel within a few days
- Check out our [activities](./2-security_champion_activities.md)

!!! question "Here's a puzzle for you :"
    Get your gift by _decoding_ this challenge - <https://forms.microsoft.com/r/cLRPzRtPGQ>

## Add Security Champion events to your calendar

To check all events, and add them to your own calendar, go to your outlook calendar and select the Security Champion Calendar from group calendars:

![Security Champion Calendar](./add_SecurityChampions_calendar.png)

_Note: This option might not be available on Mac, if that is your case, another option is to use outlook through connectit to add the events._

You can also find a calendar of events on [SharePoint](https://statoilsrm.sharepoint.com/sites/securitychampion9)

## Relevant Slack channels

- [#Security-Champions](https://equinor.slack.com/archives/C036HGPBJ04): Your go-to channel for Security Champion events and information
- [#AppSec](https://equinor.slack.com/archives/CMM6FSW5V): Information regarding AppSec

!!! info
    [#AppSec](https://equinor.slack.com/archives/CMM6FSW5V) Most general information should be posted here so everyone in Equinor has access to it and can participate! Dropping a ```@appsecteam``` in this channel will get our attention immediately.

Commit message:

docs: add sock game as scn onboarding challenge (#212)
This PR updates the Security Champion onboarding documentation to replace a general puzzle challenge with a specific "sock game" CTF challenge and makes minor improvements to the documentation language.

- Replaces the Microsoft Forms puzzle challenge with a new CTF game hosted on Radix
- Updates language from passive to active voice for better clarity
- Improves wording around communication channels and calendar access

docs/security-champion/1-new_security_champion.md, after:

# I've joined, now what?

## Welcome young padawan 🛡️✨

This is where the fun begins.

- 💬 Join the [#appsec](https://equinor.slack.com/archives/CMM6FSW5V) channel on Slack
- 🏆 You will be added to the [#security-champion](https://equinor.slack.com/archives/C036HGPBJ04) channel on Slack within a few days
- 🌟 Check out our [activities](./2-security_champion_activities.md)
- 🚀 Explore our [learning platform](./4-learning-platform.md)

!!! question "🎮 Challenge: Hack your way to Merch"
    _Hack_ your way to victory and you might just earn some **socks**!  
    👉 [Start the game and join the hall of champions](https://forms.microsoft.com/r/cLRPzRtPGQ)

## Add Security Champion events to your calendar 📅

To view all events, or add them to your own calendar, go to your outlook calendar and select the Security Champion Calendar from group calendars:

![Security Champion Calendar](./add_SecurityChampions_calendar.png)

_Note: This option might not be available on Mac, if that is your case, another option is to use outlook through connectit to add the events._

You can also find a calendar of events on [SharePoint](https://statoilsrm.sharepoint.com/sites/securitychampion9)

## Relevant Slack channels 🔗

- [#Security-Champions](https://equinor.slack.com/archives/C036HGPBJ04): Your go-to channel for Security Champion events and information
- [#AppSec](https://equinor.slack.com/archives/CMM6FSW5V): Information regarding AppSec

!!! info
    Most general information and questions should be posted in [#appsec](https://equinor.slack.com/archives/CMM6FSW5V) so everyone in Equinor has access to it and can participate! Dropping a ```@appsecteam``` in this channel will get our attention immediately.
