docs/security-champion/5-belts-and-activities.md, before:

# Belts and Activity system

We are launching a new activity system, previously only available to the [learning platform](./4-learning-platform.md) users, now for **the whole Security Champions Network**!

## This is how it works

### Secure Code learning platform

!!! Info "If you are using the Secure Code learning platform"
    Nothing changes except where you register activities! It pays to learn, and you get to upskill your knowledge as well, Win Win!

There are 5 belts you can achieve.```White```, ```Yellow```, and ```Green``` belt are achievable from only learning through the platform. More on the merch you can get from the different belts [here](./6-merch.md#merch-for-belts). The ```brown``` and ```black``` belts are something special. They require you to complete activities that give back to the Security Champion network.

!!! Danger " "
    The ```brown``` and ```black``` belts are special and require you to complete activities normally in the Security Champion network. Check them out below!

- To start earning the ```brown``` belt: Complete the three belts from the learning platform (```white```, ```yellow```, and ```green```)
- To gain the ```brown``` belt: Complete ```3``` activities from the list [below](./5-belts-and-activities.md#activities)
- To gain the ```black``` belt: Complete ```6``` new activities, for a total of ```9```

### Others

If you are not taking a part of the Secure Code learning platform, you need to do activities all the way. We want to promote the [learning platform](./4-learning-platform.md), so you should really test out the hands-on lessons!
Each belt requires X amount of approved activities.

#### Activities per belt

|White|Yellow|Green|Brown|Black|**Total**|
|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
|1|2|3|4|5|**15**|

Ex: Yellow is ```3``` completed activities, ```1``` for ```white```, ```2``` for ```yellow```

### Registration

The process for registration has been simplified! All you have to do is:

- [Use this form](https://forms.microsoft.com/e/qvikj7B3s7)
- List your activity and short about details so we know what we are approving (no sensitive information please)
- We will double-check, and if everything is A-OK, you get an e-mail!

!!! info
    One activity is one submission.

## Activities

Please help contribute with useful activities that make sense in Equinor context for our Security Champions.

- Talk briefly about your project/challenges in regards to security in the Morning Coffee
- Facilitate a ```Threat Modeling``` session for your team/project
- Share a write-up of a ```security activity``` you/your team did on the AppSec Slack
- Speak at a seminar/meetup
- Have a Security Champion from another team join/review your ```threat model```
- Join/review another team's ```threat model```
- Create an [AppSec story](./stories/index.md) about something your team did
- Attend a meetup
- Hold a security moment at a seminar/meetup
- Set up ```Snyk``` scanning for your repository
- Set up ```Secret scanning``` for your project [using our guidelines](https://appsec.equinor.com/guidelines/secret-scanning/)
- Attend a Security Journey tournament ```(learning platform)```
- Gain three ```white``` belts ```(learning platform)```
- Gain two ```yellow``` belts ```(learning platform)```
- Gain two ```green``` belts ```(learning platform)```
- Go through a Security Journey task in the Morning Coffee ```(learning platform)```

!!! note
    The list of activities will change based on your feedback.

Commit message:

docs(security champion): add address Snyk issue activity (#173)
docs(security champion: add address Snyk issue activity

Adding a new Activity: 
Assessing and addressing issues in Snyk to achieve a 0-issue dashboard.

docs/security-champion/5-belts-and-activities.md, after:

# Belts and Activity system

We are launching a new activity system, previously only available to the [learning platform](./4-learning-platform.md) users, now for **the whole Security Champions Network**!

## This is how it works

### Secure Code learning platform

!!! Info "If you are using the Secure Code learning platform"
    Nothing changes except where you register activities! It pays to learn, and you get to upskill your knowledge as well, Win Win!

There are 5 belts you can achieve.```White```, ```Yellow```, and ```Green``` belt are achievable from only learning through the platform. More on the merch you can get from the different belts [here](./6-merch.md#merch-for-belts). The ```brown``` and ```black``` belts are something special. They require you to complete activities that give back to the Security Champion network.

!!! Danger " "
    The ```brown``` and ```black``` belts are special and require you to complete activities normally in the Security Champion network. Check them out below!

- To start earning the ```brown``` belt: Complete the three belts from the learning platform (```white```, ```yellow```, and ```green```)
- To gain the ```brown``` belt: Complete ```3``` activities from the list [below](./5-belts-and-activities.md#activities)
- To gain the ```black``` belt: Complete ```6``` new activities, for a total of ```9```

### Others

If you are not taking a part of the Secure Code learning platform, you need to do activities all the way. We want to promote the [learning platform](./4-learning-platform.md), so you should really test out the hands-on lessons!
Each belt requires X amount of approved activities.

#### Activities per belt

|White|Yellow|Green|Brown|Black|**Total**|
|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
|1|2|3|4|5|**15**|

Ex: Yellow is ```3``` completed activities, ```1``` for ```white```, ```2``` for ```yellow```

### Registration

The process for registration has been simplified! All you have to do is:

- [Use this form](https://forms.microsoft.com/e/qvikj7B3s7)
- List your activity and short about details so we know what we are approving (no sensitive information please)
- We will double-check, and if everything is A-OK, you get an e-mail!

!!! info
    One activity is one submission.

## Activities

Please help contribute with useful activities that make sense in Equinor context for our Security Champions.

- Talk briefly about your project/challenges in regards to security in the Morning Coffee
- Facilitate a ```Threat Modeling``` session for your team/project
- Share a write-up of a ```security activity``` you/your team did on the AppSec Slack
- Speak at a seminar/meetup
- Have a Security Champion from another team join/review your ```threat model```
- Join/review another team's ```threat model```
- Create an [AppSec story](./stories/index.md) about something your team did
- Attend a meetup
- Hold a security moment at a seminar/meetup
- Set up ```Snyk``` scanning for your repository
- Assess and address all issues in Snyk (achieve a 0-issue dashboard)
- Set up ```Secret scanning``` for your project [using our guidelines](https://appsec.equinor.com/guidelines/secret-scanning/)
- Attend a Security Journey tournament ```(learning platform)```
- Gain three ```white``` belts ```(learning platform)```
- Gain two ```yellow``` belts ```(learning platform)```
- Gain two ```green``` belts ```(learning platform)```
- Go through a Security Journey task in the Morning Coffee ```(learning platform)```

!!! note
    The list of activities will change based on your feedback.
