docs/security-champion/7-about.md, before:

# About the network

The Security Champion Network is intended to be a community for Security Champions in Equinor. Software development over the last years has rapidly evolved from big development teams consisting of dozens of developers to smaller autonomous teams where we are today. With greater responsibility of the whole lifecycle of applications, modern DevOps teams are also expected to handle security.

This network rises from the realization that this shift-left thinking when it comes to security requires competence building within the developer teams. As the network grows we strive for it to become a powerhouse in Equinor when it comes to application security. It will be a place where teams can exchange experiences - _both good and bad_, and hopefully learn from each others.

## Desired outcome

Create a lively community for people working with Application Security in Equinor. Knowledge is shared across teams, and we are then able to scale security in a more impactful way.

## Activities

Please check our [event](./events/index.md) site for info about upcoming and past Security Champion network events.

The main communication channel for the community is [Slack](https://app.slack.com/client/T02JL00JU/CMM6FSW5V). This is where people can post questions exchange experiences when it comes to different tools and technologies etc.

## Responsibilities

Everyone in the community is responsible for keeping these info sites up to date. They are all based on markdown, don't hesitate to make a PR with fixes, or some new guidelines!

## Role of the AppSec team

The AppSec team is responsible for driving this network, but this does not mean that you can't contribute!

Would you like to take on some extra responsibilities when it comes to organizing events and keeping there pages up to date? Please reach out to us on [Slack](https://app.slack.com/client/T02JL00JU/CMM6FSW5V) or e-mail at ``appsec[at]equinor.com``

## Contact us

If you are reading this from across the web and want to reach out about the program and how we do things, please do so by sending an e-mail to ``appsec[at]equinor.com`` or reach us through the [Security Champions Norge](https://security-champions-no.slack.com/) Slack.

Commit message:

add changes based off feedback

docs/security-champion/7-about.md, after:

# About the network

The Security Champion Network is intended to be a community for Security Champions in Equinor. Software development over the last years has rapidly evolved from big development teams consisting of dozens of developers to smaller autonomous teams where we are today. With greater responsibility of the whole lifecycle of applications, modern DevOps teams are also expected to handle security.

This network was born to facilitate security awareness and competence building in DevOps teams. These are necessary ingredients for successfully [_shifting security left_](https://snyk.io/learn/shift-left-security/). It is a place where teams can safely exchange experiences - _both good and bad_, and hopefully learn from each others. The end goal is for the Security Champion Network to become Equinor's powerhouse for application security.

## Desired outcome

Create a lively community for people working with Application Security in Equinor. Knowledge is shared across teams, and we are then able to scale security in a more impactful way.

## Activities

Please check our [event](./events/index.md) site for info about upcoming and past Security Champion network events.

The main communication channel for the community is [Slack](https://app.slack.com/client/T02JL00JU/CMM6FSW5V). This is where people can post questions exchange experiences when it comes to different tools and technologies etc.

## Role of the AppSec team

The Security Champions Network is run by the AppSec team, but we aim to empower our champions to contribute in any way they can.

Do you have a guideline you want to create? Do you want to hold a seminar talk? Would you want to organize an event? Whatever the idea is, _let's have a chat! 🤟_

Reach out to us on [Slack](https://app.slack.com/client/T02JL00JU/CMM6FSW5V) or e-mail at ``appsec[at]equinor.com``

## Contact us

If you are reading this from across the web and want to reach out about the program and how we do things, please do so by sending an e-mail to ``appsec[at]equinor.com`` or reach us through the [Security Champions Norge](https://security-champions-no.slack.com/) Slack.
