docs/security-champion/index.md, before:

# Security Champion

## Info about Security Champion

Ideally, each development team should have one or more team-members who takes on the role of Security Champion. When an **area** are supported by many small teams (1-2 persons) this **area** should be represented by one or more security champions.

A Security Champion is a team-member who amplifies the security message at the team level.

In practice, this means to act as the "security conscience" of the team.
You do not need to be a security expert to become a Security Champion, an interest for security is more than enough.

!!! info
    Please note that security is a team responsibility, and the Security Champion is not more accountable for security than any other team member

Tasks *could* involve:

- Staying up-to-date with best practices and security related news
- Attend security related conferences/training/workshops
- Raising awareness of security issues within the development team
- Being part of the Security Champion community
- Facilitate threat modelling
- Conduct and/or verify automated scans
- Be the point of contact for security related stuff
- Drive internal bug-bounty

As a Security Champion you would be a target audience for a lot of the work done by the Equinor AppSec team.
The AppSec team will be providing workshops, training, resources and support where needed.

!!! todo "Signup Information"
    Use [this form](https://forms.office.com/r/3C2vwEh2i0) for signing up to the security champion's network

Commit message:

Update SCN section (#150)
* update SCN section and sign

* Update docs/security-champion/1-new_security_champion.md

Co-authored-by: Andrea Brambilla <1792970+andreabrambilla@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/security-champion/1-new_security_champion.md

Co-authored-by: Andrea Brambilla <1792970+andreabrambilla@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/security-champion/2-security_champion_activities.md

Co-authored-by: Andrea Brambilla <1792970+andreabrambilla@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/security-champion/3-faq.md

Co-authored-by: Andrea Brambilla <1792970+andreabrambilla@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/security-champion/index.md

Co-authored-by: Andrea Brambilla <1792970+andreabrambilla@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/security-champion/2-security_champion_activities.md

Co-authored-by: Andrea Brambilla <1792970+andreabrambilla@users.noreply.github.com>

* add azure to learning section

* Update docs/security-champion/7-about.md

Co-authored-by: Stein A Sivertsen <steinsiv@users.noreply.github.com>

* add changes based off feedback

---------

Co-authored-by: Andrea Brambilla <1792970+andreabrambilla@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Stein A Sivertsen <steinsiv@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/security-champion/index.md, after:

# What is a Security Champion

You are probably wondering what a Security Champion is in Equinor context and what you can expect if you join? Well then you are on the right track.

A Security Champion in our context is a person who has a interest in security and want to expand on this interest. The Security Champions Network (SCN) is a network where people and security is in the center.

!!! info
    You do not need to have any security knowledge to join, but the eagerness to learn and share

## What do we expect from you?

- See something, say something. You are the voice of security, so please use it
- Join our coffees/seminars/meetups
- Share experiences, both good and bad
- Ask questions and be curious
- Respond to feedback requests
- Share what you learn with your team

!!! info
    A Security Champion is the voice of security, and security is a _team effort_.

You as a champion are the heart of this network. We know time might be tight, but we greatly appreciate all participation.

## What can you expect?

- You get to take part in a community of like-minded people
- You can attend activities only catered to Security Champions
- You will help form this network, as your voice and your experiences matter
- You will get experiences and knowledge that might help advance your career
- Last but not least: Awesome merch!

## How to become a Security Champion?

Becoming a Security Champion is as easy as filling out [this form](https://forms.microsoft.com/r/3C2vwEh2i0).

## Questions?

Try checking out our [FAQ](./3-faq.md).
