docs/security-champion/stories/index.md, before:

# Stories 🏆

We want to highlight stories from our teams, to promote both learning and sharing culture, in the context of security. What _is_ a story? Below are a few examples:
- Something that went wrong in a project, how it was fixed and lessons learned
- New feature added to improve security
- New routines or ceremonies that has helped the team

 If you have something in mind, consider writing a story. It's even an activity to reach the [brown/black belt](../4-learning-platform.md#activities)!

!!! info
    Please use the below template and send it to the AppSec team on Slack or e-mail at ``appsec[at]equinor.com``

## How to get started

This is just a guidance, you do you when telling this story. Feel free to include pictures to illustrate, and provide sources where applicable.

- **The team:**<br>
This is normally you and your team.

- **Initial situation:**<br>
This is the initial situation of why you are telling the story. Did some security control go wrong? Did a new feature get in the backlog?

- **The mission:**<br>
What activities was made to improve or remediate the initial situation? What challenges occurred along the way? Usually the part where readers can learn something to take home, or get new ideas.

- **Outcome:**<br>
What was the outcome? Did it improve the initial situation and give some new learning to the team?

!!! tip "Tips"
    Try to add technical and quantifiable information to the story to better showcase the value.

!!! Warning "Note"
    Please keep in mind that the site is accessible publicly to everyone across the internet, therefore avoid sharing information that is sensitive or should not be available to the public.

Commit message:

docs: correct wrong mkdocs syntax (#155)
* docs: correct wrong mkdocs syntax and sign

* docs: add title to template and sign

* docs: remove warning

docs/security-champion/stories/index.md, after:

# Stories 🏆

We want to highlight stories from our teams, to promote both learning and sharing culture, in the context of security.

## What _is_ a story?

A few examples:

- Something that went wrong in a project, how it was fixed, and lessons learned
- New feature added to improve security and the road to implementation
- New routines or ceremonies that has helped the team

 If you have something in mind, consider writing a story. It's even an activity to reach the [brown/black belt](../4-learning-platform.md#activities)!

!!! info
    Please use the below template and send it to the AppSec team on Slack or e-mail at ``appsec[at]equinor.com``

## How to get started

Feel free to include pictures to illustrate, and provide sources where applicable.

- **The title:**<br>
Every story needs a snappy title.

- **The team:**<br>
This is normally you and your team.

- **Initial situation:**<br>
This is the initial situation of why you are telling the story. Did some security control go wrong? Did a new feature get in the backlog?

- **The mission:**<br>
What activities was made to improve or remediate the initial situation? What challenges occurred along the way? Usually the part where readers can learn something to take home, or get new ideas.

- **Outcome:**<br>
What was the outcome? Did it improve the initial situation and give some new learning to the team?

!!! tip "Tips"
    Try to add technical and quantifiable information to the story to better showcase the value.
