docs/toolbox/github-advanced-security/faq.md, before:

# GHAS Transition FAQ

## Can we enable GHAS now?

No. There are no available licences until **1st of October**, unless your repository is public, or we have gotten in touch with your team.

## Should we still import our new repositories into Snyk?

Yes. Snyk will be the preferred tool of use until **1st of October**.

## Do we really only get one month to prepare?

We unfortunately cannot have two solutions active for the entire transition period. This should however not be a major issue for most. Enabling GHAS is fairly straight forward and we are here to help you with the transition.
During October you will have access to both Snyk and GHAS, we will lose access to Snyk on 1st of November but it can be smart to disable alerts in Snyk once you have enabled GHAS in order to not receive double alerting.

## Is AppSec publishing some guidelines / best practices for enabling and configuring GHAS anytime soon?

Yes, we have published a [guide for enabling and configuring GHAS](../github-advanced-security/setup.md).

## Will there be an onboarding session?

We have scheduled five onboarding sessions in October, all Security Champions have been invited and you can request access in the [#appsec](https://equinor.enterprise.slack.com/archives/CMM6FSW5V) channel.

## Does GHAS settings get applied to forks of the repository?

No, GHAS settings do not get applied to forks. We have also observed that pull requests to the upstream repository require that a successful CodeQL scan is performed on the fork.

## What role do I need to enable GHAS?

From 1st of October, repository **admins** will be able to enable GHAS, we recommend taking a look at our [guide for enabling and configuring GHAS](../github-advanced-security/setup.md).

## What dashboards will I have access to? How can I see vulnerability trends?

With GHAS, you'll have access to the security tab in each repository, where you can view code scanning alerts, secret scanning results, and Dependabot insights (dependencies).

For broader visibility, the organization level security tab provides aggregated data across all repos you have access to. Here you can find an overview on alerts over time, security risks currently open and security coverage. You can also see all your Dependabot, code scanning and secret scanning alerts across all repos. The organization level security tab is available for repository **admins only**.

## Any general guidelines for container scanner?

We are currently evaluating open source alternatives like Trivy.
At the moment, there are no guidelines on container scanner but we are working on releasing some as soon as possible.

## Does GHAS support IaC scanning?

No, we are looking into open source alternatives, like Trivy, to support teams with scanning their IaC.
If you have any good experiences with an IaC open source tool, please let us know.

## Should I also enable GHAS for repositories that only contain documentation?

From 1st of October, all repositories in the Equinor organization should be onboarded into GHAS.
Repositories that only contain documentation can also contain secrets and GitHub actions, GHAS can help by detecting secrets in the repository and by scanning your GitHub actions for vulnerabilities or out of date versions.

## How can I get security alerts in slack?

This is unfortunately not something we have found an easy solution to. If you are aware of a method please reach out to your nearest AppSec representative!
We recommend setting up e-mail notifications in GitHub, you can filter GHAS specific e-mails to a separate folder by using for example the "security" keyword for filtering.
GHAS alerts will also be shown in your repository Security tab.

## What should I do to offboard from Snyk?

From 1st of October, once you have enabled GHAS, you can disable alerting in Snyk in order to not receive double alerting.
Once you have completed the migration onto GHAS you should revoke the PAT tokens that have been used with Snyk.

## Do you still recommending using Trufflehog?

Absolutely, Trufflehog can be automated to run during a pre-commit hook which will significantly reduce the chance that a secret is pushed, although GitHub has push-protection and high quality secret scanning capabilities. You can see the currently supported patterns by GHAS here: <https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-cloud@latest/code-security/secret-scanning/introduction/supported-secret-scanning-patterns#default-patterns>

## Should we have a custom Code Scanning setup?

The default code scanning should be good for most cases. It scans on every commit. You may monitor the consumption in minutes on Github Actions. If that number goes above 1000 minutes a month, then contact the AppSec team. They'll first try to take that consumption down by fine tuning CodeQL. And if that fails, only then we can consider weekly scans instead of every commit.

## What will happen to the Snyk vulnerability report in Radix?

Snyk will most likely be replaced with Trivy in Radix, for more information contact the Radix team.

Commit message:

docs(faq): More detail and clearer answer to GHAS settings on forks

docs/toolbox/github-advanced-security/faq.md, after:

# GHAS Transition FAQ

## Can we enable GHAS now?

No. There are no available licences until **1st of October**, unless your repository is public, or we have gotten in touch with your team.

## Should we still import our new repositories into Snyk?

Yes. Snyk will be the preferred tool of use until **1st of October**.

## Do we really only get one month to prepare?

We unfortunately cannot have two solutions active for the entire transition period. This should however not be a major issue for most. Enabling GHAS is fairly straight forward and we are here to help you with the transition.
During October you will have access to both Snyk and GHAS, we will lose access to Snyk on 1st of November but it can be smart to disable alerts in Snyk once you have enabled GHAS in order to not receive double alerting.

## Is AppSec publishing some guidelines / best practices for enabling and configuring GHAS anytime soon?

Yes, we have published a [guide for enabling and configuring GHAS](../github-advanced-security/setup.md).

## Will there be an onboarding session?

We have scheduled five onboarding sessions in October, all Security Champions have been invited and you can request access in the [#appsec](https://equinor.enterprise.slack.com/archives/CMM6FSW5V) channel.

## Does GHAS settings get applied to forks of the repository?

When you fork a repository, Advanced Security features are not automatically enabled on the fork.
This is because security settings (such as code scanning, secret protection, etc.) are managed per repository,
and forking does not inherit these settings by default. 

If you want Advanced Security features in your fork, you need to enable them manually. 

We have also observed that pull requests to the upstream repository require that a successful CodeQL scan is performed on the fork. 

## What role do I need to enable GHAS?

From 1st of October, repository **admins** will be able to enable GHAS, we recommend taking a look at our [guide for enabling and configuring GHAS](../github-advanced-security/setup.md).

## What dashboards will I have access to? How can I see vulnerability trends?

With GHAS, you'll have access to the security tab in each repository, where you can view code scanning alerts, secret scanning results, and Dependabot insights (dependencies).

For broader visibility, the organization level security tab provides aggregated data across all repos you have access to. Here you can find an overview on alerts over time, security risks currently open and security coverage. You can also see all your Dependabot, code scanning and secret scanning alerts across all repos. The organization level security tab is available for repository **admins only**.

## Any general guidelines for container scanner?

We are currently evaluating open source alternatives like Trivy.
At the moment, there are no guidelines on container scanner but we are working on releasing some as soon as possible.

## Does GHAS support IaC scanning?

No, we are looking into open source alternatives, like Trivy, to support teams with scanning their IaC.
If you have any good experiences with an IaC open source tool, please let us know.

## Should I also enable GHAS for repositories that only contain documentation?

From 1st of October, all repositories in the Equinor organization should be onboarded into GHAS.
Repositories that only contain documentation can also contain secrets and GitHub actions, GHAS can help by detecting secrets in the repository and by scanning your GitHub actions for vulnerabilities or out of date versions.

## How can I get security alerts in slack?

This is unfortunately not something we have found an easy solution to. If you are aware of a method please reach out to your nearest AppSec representative!
We recommend setting up e-mail notifications in GitHub, you can filter GHAS specific e-mails to a separate folder by using for example the "security" keyword for filtering.
GHAS alerts will also be shown in your repository Security tab.

## What should I do to offboard from Snyk?

From 1st of October, once you have enabled GHAS, you can disable alerting in Snyk in order to not receive double alerting.
Once you have completed the migration onto GHAS you should revoke the PAT tokens that have been used with Snyk.

## Do you still recommending using Trufflehog?

Absolutely, Trufflehog can be automated to run during a pre-commit hook which will significantly reduce the chance that a secret is pushed, although GitHub has push-protection and high quality secret scanning capabilities. You can see the currently supported patterns by GHAS here: <https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-cloud@latest/code-security/secret-scanning/introduction/supported-secret-scanning-patterns#default-patterns>

## Should we have a custom Code Scanning setup?

The default code scanning should be good for most cases. It scans on every commit. You may monitor the consumption in minutes on Github Actions. If that number goes above 1000 minutes a month, then contact the AppSec team. They'll first try to take that consumption down by fine tuning CodeQL. And if that fails, only then we can consider weekly scans instead of every commit.

## What will happen to the Snyk vulnerability report in Radix?

Snyk will most likely be replaced with Trivy in Radix, for more information contact the Radix team.
